Pollution is one of the major considerable issues for whole world in current time. Pollution can be referred as some kind of impurity in natural environment that is harmful for all living beings on earth. Majorly four types of pollution can be measured as Air pollution, Water pollution, Land pollution and Noise pollution. Existence of all these categories of pollution is due to some unacceptable acts of human beings either intentionally or unintentionally. This world is completely depends on advance technology and for making technical equipment, factories and mills are opening everywhere. These factories produce harmful gases and chemical liquids as waste materials. Gases convert into air pollution and liquids dissolve in water so create water pollution. Noise pollution arises due to so many things like electric equipments existed at home, factories siren, construction site work, vehicle sounds and many more.
Pollution, whether it is air, land, voice or water, always put bad effect on people’s physical and mental health. Many types of diseases regarding people’s lungs and breath related emerge due to growing air pollution all around. Pollution in water does not only affect human beings but also for birds and animals, it is too harmful and injurious.
Solution for this huge problem of pollution can be found by the equal support and efforts of all people living all around the world. Try to clean your house, society and nation on your first priority. Try to use silent equipment at home for avoiding noise pollution, avoid spreading dust or wastage in your nearby areas, drinking water should be clean and pure. Make a good habit of using toilet and spread awareness among all about its benefit. Water tanks, ponds, rivers should be clean on regular basis. Use of solar or hydro energy should be promoted and in spite of using your personal vehicle, use public transport or car pooling to avoid air pollution which increases due to fossil fuel burning.
These were some kind of easy solutions that can be effective for reducing pollution in natural resources of air, water or land.